[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome.
My name is Emery Smith.
And today we have a
very special guest.
His name is David Adair.
David, welcome to the show.
>> Glad to be here.
>> We're going to be talking
about the infrastructure
of the planetary electrical
grids that we have in place.
Because they need some
serious upgrading.
But before we talk
about that, why is that?
>> You know, we never
think ahead as a race.
And America was
particularly bad about it
in an area called
infrastructure.
We wait until something's
crumbling down
and can't use it.
Then we jump on it with the fury
of the way we can do things.
And we repair it.
But we have constantly upgraded
our bridges, our roads,
and they've went down again.
And now we're in the process of
trying to bring them back up.
But the one thing we've
never really worked on
to bring it back up
is the electric grid.
Since it works and the lights
are on, you know, don't fix--
>> Why bother?
>> Yeah.
Don't fix it.
It's not broke.
>> It's always there.
>> Well, that's fine and dandy
until something like a CME
comes along from the Sun, which
it did in September, 1869,
called the Carrington Event,
named after the astronomer
Carrington that
told us what it was.
It's a thing called a
Coronal Mass Ejection.
And we are so vulnerable to
that, which is nature-made.
>> What did they experience
back then at that ejection?
>> Well, what happened
was, first of all,
what's a Coronal Mass Ejection?
The Sun is rotating.
And it throws off beads
of sweat, like you do that
and you give it a sling.
You see all them
beads go out there.
Well, the Sun's
doing the same thing.
But that bead of sweat is a
little bit bigger than the one
you just shook off.
When the bead of sweat comes
off the Sun, it is plasma.
It's hot.
And it is the size and
mass of Mount Everest.
So it comes hauling
across space.
>> How fast?
>> Almost up to light speed.
It can cross 93 million
miles in about 14 hours.
It can get here--
and when it does, it's
extremely charged particles,
with the protons in the plasma.
And fortunately, we have a
Van Allen Radiation Belt.
But it doesn't
always protect us.
In September of 1869,
which is only four years
after the end of the
Civil War, the only thing
electronic on Earth at
that time was telegraphs.
So this big ball
of plasma comes in,
hits the Van Allen
Radiation Belt,
breaks apart, two
halves roll around,
smack again on the other side.
Then it comes into the
Earth's atmosphere,
through the upper
layers, and cascades over
the entire surface
of the planet.
Now, you would think something
like that would kill us.
A CME would never harm
plants or animals.
But buddy, it is the
devil on electronics.
>> Everything electronic goes--
>> Anything electronic,
this thing is going to eat.
>> And why is that?
>> It's because of the charge
of the particles will come in.
And the first thing
it likes to do
is find some way to--
like electricity does,
it's looking for the
least paths of resistance.
In this case, you've
done a good job.
You put your entire power
grid 40 feet in the air
up on top of telephone poles.
Just going, here I am.
Down through the atmosphere
comes the charged plasma
particles.
They'll hit the lines--
and power lines, first
of all, not insulated.
>> So all them lines
you see out there--
>> Energy wasted.
>> That's one thing.
But if you touch
one, oh, man, you
will light up like a Christmas
tree, right before you explode.
So the other reason
they're not insulated--
too much weight.
It'd pull them down
onto the ground.
So you got all these
naked wires up there.
Here comes the plasma.
It settles down like
rain onto the lines.
And those power
lines are designed
to carry about 5,500 volts.
Well, a CME will drop
about three million volts
onto these lines.
They'll go cascading
down the lines.
Those lines will, in just
seconds, will turn from a line
to, it's red-hot,
it's white-hot,
and it's poof-- it's gone.
Right before it
poofs, it's going
to give a spike like you're
not going to believe.
If we were in this room and a
CME hit, all the lights in here
would flash like flash bulbs.
All the-- in your lamps in your
house, your office, lights,
everything.
They all get really, really
bright, -psst- and that's it.
And they're out.
And buddy, they
are out for good.
They're not going
to come back on.
You're not going to have
a line crew, oh, we'll
go out and string up more
wires, we'll be done.
You're looking at at
least two to five years
before you can get
your power back on.
But that's not the worst part.
That's just--
>> The beginning.
>> That's the hors d'oeuvre.
Wait until you see the
rest of the course.
Right before those lines go
poof, all the big gray cans
that you see hanging
on telephone poles--
they're called transformers.
And inside those transformers,
they're filled with oil.
Because the electricity
goes into the transformer,
goes through the oil, helps
cool it down, comes back up
and helps keep
things maintained.
If they didn't do that,
you'll melt the lines down.
But that big surge, that spike
that's going through there--
it will detonate every
one of those transformers.
Now every transformer
you see is a napalm bomb.
>> I've been through a few
hurricanes in southern Florida,
and in my backyard, of
course, in the two corners
of my backyard, there are two
transformers on each pole.
And every time we
have this hurricane,
these things explode.
And I'm so impressed, because
the only thing it reminds me of
is a combustible bomb.
You know, in the field,
of that shock wave.
>> And don't you love that
sound, and the purple light?
>> And the light.
And-- ugh.
>> That purple light is the
atmosphere being ionized by all
the charged particles
going on is just bad news.
But so imagine you're
walking down the street,
the lights flash, then all
the transformers explode.
Oil comes flying
out that's on fire.
You got napalm all
over the streets.
Everyone that you're
looking at is on fire.
And you think, well,
it can't get no worse.
Oh, yeah?
That's just the first minute.
It's going to get
a whole lot worse.
About 20 seconds after
all that, here they come.
What?
Aircraft.
All the aircraft that's over--
a half a million people in
the sky at any one moment.
So down they come.
Engines shut off.
Can't restart.
>> These are missiles,
full of fuel.
>> Yeah.
Right into the
ground, full of fuel.
That's a good point.
>> And this is more than--
>> A lot of them
could be full of fuel.
And they'll crash into the
streets, hospitals, libraries,
schools, homes.
You know, they're
just coming down.
They've got no control.
And that, you think, God, help.
You know, what-- everything is
burning from coast to coast.
Not just a fire--
you know, when we
have a forest fire,
like, California, it's isolated
to a part of the state.
>> Isolated areas.
>> And the other
48 states can help.
But in this situation,
all 48 states are on fire.
From coast to coast.
Everything is on fire.
Well, call for help.
Call the fire department.
You can't.
What do you mean can't?
Cell phones are out.
Relay towers, transmission
towers, all dead.
Even your satellite
phones won't work.
Because you had to transmit
to a dish that ups the signal.
That thing ain't there no more.
It's dead.
>> Ham radios.
>> It's dead.
Call the police.
You can't call the police.
And we're not making
this up, y'all.
It's not just me sitting
here telling you this.
There were 26 agencies--
and I mean, it was everybody.
It's the CIA, the FBI, the NOAA.
All these national
organizations were
asked to do a study on this.
And some of these agencies
don't even like each other.
>> No.
>> But all agencies came
back with the same numbers.
Yet, you better stop what
you're doing and pay attention.
Because that means, whatever
these numbers are, are real.
And they were
horrifying numbers.
You can count on probably
at least 75% to 85%
of the population would
die in the first week.
First week.
Because they go, well, why is--
>> Catastrophic event.
>> Yeah, they said, well,
everything is on fire.
You're going to die in fires.
Smoke inhalation.
>> All the smoke in the
atmosphere too, probably,
right?
>> Crashing aircraft.
Explosions.
Oh, that's not bad
enough for you?
OK.
Cars don't run.
They've been knocked out.
Their computers have
been knocked out.
No transportation.
You're on foot with everything.
>> Bicycles or horses.
>> That's it.
And then here comes the
second wave of horror.
You go, well, what
would that be?
There's no food.
There's no water.
And something that will really
grab the millennials-- no cell
phones.
No pagers.
No notebooks.
No laptops.
Nothing.
All that is just doorstops.
Useless.
>> It's worse than "Mad Max."
>> Yeah.
>> Because it'll turn into that.
>> It will.
It will quickly--
second wave of horror.
Man on man violence.
And that's where it really
cranks up the numbers.
People have no food, no
water, no medications.
What about all the
people in hospitals?
They're dead.
Well, they got
backup generators.
Oh, really?
About 90% of them don't work.
Because they never turn
them on to test them.
>> What about medication
that people need to survive,
that they get at the
local pharmacies?
Those are all cut off.
>> You're dead.
Diabetic?
You're done.
>> That's a lot
of numbers alone.
>> It don't take long
to get up to 85%, 90%.
Oh.
And now you got 60 nuclear
reactors that's on [INAUDIBLE]..
And they're losing their
water, because they can't pump.
There's no power to pump them.
They've got back generators.
They only last for three days.
>> They're going to overheat.
>> They're going to
overheat in three days.
>> Meltdown.
>> So now you've got nuclear
reactors that meltdown,
could blow out.
And you've got 60 Chernobyls
within continental United
States.
>> So that would
end civilization.
>> You're smoke.
You're done.
I can't paint a
bad enough picture.
No matter how bad I paint it,
in reality, when it happens,
it's going to be far worse.
And people are saying,
oh, you're an alarmist.
You know, Chicken Little,
the sky is falling.
Dude, wake up.
Do you remember the
blackout of New York?
That was caused by one fuse
the size of my forearm.
And when that thing
went out, it shut down--
you know, the entire
Northeast of America.
And part of Canada.
>> And the only good thing that
came out of that was the air
quality improved over 24 hours,
because there was no use.
>> There was nobody
moving around.
Right.
And an awful lot of babies
were born nine months later.
>> That's right.
>> But other than that, there
wasn't too much good out of it.
That's how vulnerable it was.
One part the size of my
forearm took all that out.
>> We can't prevent
this from happening.
It's going to happen.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just a matter of time.
>> It's a matter of a time.
>> What can we do, though,
to protect ourselves,
or what's the
preventive measures?
>> There's a lot of
things you can do.
>> That we can do.
Especially starting
with the grid.
>> Well, you don't have
to go through this.
And you don't have to
pay a trillion dollars.
For $10 billion, we can
fix the grid, where you
won't have to go through this.
What you do, you
use '50s technology.
Old, tried and true.
We know they work.
Because the military's been
using them since the 1950s.
Surge protectors-- diverters,
switches, Faraday cages,
which is like a net you
throw over a device,
keep the C&P off of it.
And just--
>> Capacitors?
>> Capacitors.
Put all this stuff in the grid.
And then when the charge
comes in, it handles it.
>> Or saves it.
>> Yeah.
It actually saves it.
>> You can save it.
>> Well, yeah, because if you
do it right and get some really
big capacitors, man, them things
are going to light up like
Christmas trees.
And you could pull off for
months of power off that thing.
You don't have to die
this horrible death.
Just do a little prevention.
But they thought, well, how
hard is that to get done?
Man, I can go to
the Moon far easier
than I can trying to
get the grid hardened.
Well, you just said,
using '50s technology.
What's the problem?
Politics.
>> You've brought this up and
have written many briefings
on this.
And, sad to say, you did not
get really good responses
from the United
States with this.
>> For God's sake, we were
betrayed by our own people
within our own rank and file.
Senator Lisa Murkowski,
the chairwoman
of the Senate subcommittee
on hardening the grid--
well, you think
she'd be all for it.
She killed a bill three times.
These people are
playing politics
with your lives, your kids'
lives, and your grandkids'
lives.
They don't care.
Do your damn job and protect the
citizens of the United States,
who have paid you to do this.
But y'all are sitting there,
and you think you're safe.
And you are not.
>> So Dave, we talked about
how this is so political.
And you've been having a
big wall put in front of you
in the United States.
But where else could you
maybe demonstrate this?
You did tell me you had
another couple space
agencies, new space
agencies that came out,
that wanted you to come over
and maybe demonstrate this.
>> Yeah.
Because, obviously, America
is not going to do it.
And it's not the American
people, God bless them.
It's the idiots in
Washington that won't do it.
And so I've tried, and
tried, and tried for years
to get things to change here,
to get your grid hardened.
Well, the Middle East
approached me to talk to them
about running a space program.
So we -- you know -- we're
going to go sit down in a couple
of weeks here.
And that's exactly what
we're going to talk about.
But that's just not
all that's on the list.
They've got a laundry
list, you know, this long,
of things they want me to do.
And if they throw out the
bucks, I can do them all.
But why that affects you is
that one of the items is they
want me to harden their grid.
They want me to do it.
They're asking me.
Here in America, I'm
trying to pound down
the door to get people moving.
They won't do anything.
So I'll go over to the Mid-East.
I'm going to harden not
just Egypt or Syria,
the entire Middle East.
Yeah, and that includes Iran.
Oh, he's a traitor.
No, I'm not.
I'm trying to save your butt.
Because I can't have any
continent on fire from a CME,
or an EMP attack.
Why?
Because the smoke
will go up in the air.
It'll be so sick of
an entire continent,
it'll blot out the
Sun for two years.
Every expert on
the planet agrees.
And first thing,
all plant life dies.
No Sun.
Second thing, all animal life.
That's all you guys--
will die.
So I'm not going to-- if
I can prevent that, yeah.
If that means that I have
to harden the grid over
in Iran, fine.
Yeah.
They don't like us.
Maybe they will when I get done.
But it's defensive.
They can't attack you
with a hardened grid.
Well, they'll say, well, you
could fire an EMP weapon.
It wouldn't bother them.
It doesn't matter at this point.
It's not about different
countries, even politics.
Man, this problem is species.
Survival of the species.
Humankind, worldwide.
If you don't approach this
thing and tackle it head
on, it's going to
come and get y'all.
See, there's two
types of threats.
There are other many threats,
but these are two major ones.
CME, mother nature.
Coronal Mass Ejection.
EMP-- electromagnetic pulse.
Man-made.
And they will fire
to other countries.
Well, how serious is
an EMP threat on you?
Why don't somebody type in,
while y'all are sitting there--
type in the Panama Canal.
And type in ship
found with missiles.
There was a ship coming through
the Panama Canal from Cuba,
on its way to North Korea.
It's filled with
hundred-pound bags of sugar.
Tons of it.
Well, that's not a threat.
Well, we didn't
think it was either.
But when they go to find the
captain, they can't find him.
He's up in his
captain's office there.
So they run in and
see what he's doing.
He's sitting there with a
gun barrel in his mouth.
He's ready to kill himself.
What the hell is
he so scared of?
He's hiding something.
So they pull the ship
over to the side.
They unload thousands
of bags of sugar.
Get all the way to the
bottom of the cargo bottom.
They find a false floor.
They pull it out.
And guess what's laying there?
Two Soviet SS-18 missiles.
Where'd they come from?
Cuba.
When?
1964 Cuban Missile Crisis.
Where are they going?
They're going to North Korea.
Why?
Call Little Rocket
Boy over there.
He's going to strap on, instead
of nuclear weapons on it-- he's
going to load these two
rockets with EMP warheads.
Electromagnetic pulse warheads.
Then what'll do?
Guess where the ship manifest
says it's going after all that?
To Mexico City.
Why?
They'll take the two
missiles into Mexico,
out in the desert
somewhere, and boom, boom.
They shoot them our way.
>> Just two of those-- explain--
>> Just two of them.
>> Just two-- explain, could
disable the entire United
States of America.
>> Bring us down forever.
Well, we'll shoot them down.
With what?
In the southwest corner
of North America,
there is no missile
defense system.
We didn't think we'd need it.
You're sitting there with
a big hole, vulnerable.
Oh, missile boy.
Here he comes.
Here comes the two missiles.
They get in one over
Missouri, one over Arkansas.
Somewhere in there, in
the middle of the country,
at about a 300,
400 mile altitude.
Boom, boom.
You won't even hear the boom.
You might see a flash of light,
think it's just lightning
somewhere.
>> This is not a nuclear bomb.
>> No.
It's something else.
>> Right.
>> So this EMP charge
is coming down.
And then you'll know something's
up when all the lights flash
and they go out.
Then we're back to
that crazy scenario
I just said where
transformers will explode.
Aircraft will drop down.
So everything is on fire.
We're burning up.
The grid's knocked out.
And it's going to be--
when it's knocked out
like that, one of the line
men will be out there,
and like normal when
a storm comes by.
And in a couple days,
they got power back up.
What's the big deal?
This is not that.
That's an orange.
This is an apple.
>> Why are you so compassionate
about this, David?
>> Because I don't want
you people to get hurt.
I really like all of you.
>> You mean die.
>> Yeah.
You know, I really
like you people.
I don't want y'all to get hurt.
And I like you Democrats.
I like you Republicans.
And the independents.
It's not political.
This should be a
bipartisan thing.
We're all going to die if
we don't work together.
And I don't want to see
y'all go through this.
I want to make sure you're safe.
And the way to do that--
you know what, the sanctuary--
spot.
I want to make sure you
got a sanctuary spot.
Because if we don't
do something about it,
your sanctuary is going
to burn into toast.
It's not science fiction.
It's not made up.
This is as real as real gets.
>> So what's your strategy
going to be to accomplish this?
>> Well, I can't seem to
get headway in America.
>> All right.
>> So I'll tell you what.
I'm going to leave this country.
I'm going to go to
the Middle East.
But what I'll do there is going
to put so much pressure back
this way, gonna force
those idiots in DC
to do something for you.
They won't do their jobs.
We're going to have to
force them with a crowbar
to do their jobs, to
protect you people.
And it's not something that's
out of our technological reach.
Not at all.
>> You mentioned, this
is 1950s technology.
>> Yeah.
And you know, how real
of a threat is it?
There are people
coming for you all.
Well, what are we talking about?
Silicon Valley.
Type that into
the damn internet.
Read up on a substation
in Silicon Valley.
Look what happened.
That station was sitting
there real quiet.
And these men showed up.
Might have been women.
Don't know.
But whoever they were,
they were highly organized,
and real smart.
First thing they did, they
took out the security cameras.
Guns with silencers.
Cut the chains, went
into the substation.
They shot transformers.
I ain't talking
about a transformer,
that thing on a pole.
I'm talking about a transformer
the size of a gymnasium.
And they shot 15 of them up.
Millions of dollars of damage.
Do you know how long
it takes to replace
a transformer that size?
You put your order in to
either China or West Germany.
And in two years, you
get your transformer.
First of all, you shouldn't
be ordering your transformers
from two countries.
You should have a
manufacturing plant right
in the center of
the country that
can feed backup transformers.
>> David, how long would it
take to implement your plan
of the new grid in the
United States of America?
>> We could do the entire North
American continent in less than
a year and a half.
>> Well, that's not much.
That's pretty quick.
That's very fast.
>> Very quick.
We're not inventing
new technology.
We're just using old
stuff off the shelf.
>> Well, explain that
science to the viewers here.
>> Well, we're using things like
capacitors, surge protectors,
Faraday cages, which is just
metal nets over devices,
to keep the EMP pulse waves off.
Or the CME.
You get two for
one in this case.
Diverters, where things get too
loaded, you switch over to this
and share the loads.
Simple things like that,
once they're in place,
your grid's hardened.
It can take--
>> How many attacks can it take?
>> As long as you keep the
equipment we put in maintained,
like anything.
You buy a car, you got to
tune it up now and then.
You got to change the oil on it.
>> Sure.
It's the maintenance
all the time.
>> Just do maintenance on it.
Forever.
Indefinite.
Hit after hit after hit.
It'll still work.
I can't believe
I had to argue so
hard to get somebody to
do something so simple
to save your lives.
I was called by the
governor of Texas.
And if you remember
your history,
Texas used to be
its own country.
It was a republic.
The Republic of Texas.
>> Of course.
>> Well, those
Texans down there,
you can say what
you want about them.
But you know, Davy Crockett,
Jim Bowie, that crowd.
They're still alive down there.
And he heard about me
struggling so hard.
And he said, we're not going to
want to wait for Washington DC
idiots to decide what to do.
We want to harden
the grid of Texas.
I went, really?
>> Wow.
>> We could do that.
How much?
$1 billion.
$1 billion?
We've got people down
here with checkbooks.
They could write a
billion dollar check
and not even miss it.
Exactly.
So I'll come down there, and
I'll harden your grid in Texas.
So when the lights
go out over here,
and everything is on fire,
Texas is sitting there
with its lights on and no fire.
>> Everyone's going
to flood to Texas.
>> Yeah.
But who would rule America?
Texas.
If you don't like that thought,
then get the whole grid fixed.
You know, stop sitting there
and not doing anything.
But the Texans want
to do something.
And I'm going to the
Mid-East to do that part.
But I'm going to come
back and do Texas.
Because then I've done Texas,
I'm doing the Middle East.
I'm putting DC between
them like a vise,
and turning it until we
bust them like a grape.
And get this thing done and
get you people protected.
And it's-- look it
up on the internet.
There are thousands of articles
written about what I'm just
telling you that backs me up.
26 different agencies, all
come to the same conclusion.
You know, it's one of
the worst problems you
could face for your existence.
And yet, y'all hardly
know anything about it.
>> Why do you think we're
putting it on the back-burner?
>> I wish I knew
the answer to that.
>> I can't-- it's hard for me to
believe that just one person is
holding this whole thing up.
But it is.
>> Yeah.
It's more than one.
It's a group of politicians.
And if the one person would be--
if it's a group of politicians,
it's one thing.
DC is holding this up.
And they're like a
bunch of little kids
up there, screaming and
crying and throwing tantrums,
not getting what they want.
But they're making
you pay the price.
They're rolling the dice
with your life, your kids,
your family, everybody.
>> So their benefit
is really just money.
>> It doesn't even
make sense on that.
Because the amount
of money that's
involved is insignificant to
what they spend every day.
They spend every day the
amount that you would
need to fix all this with.
You know, maybe if I
keep bitching and raising
enough ruckus, somebody'll
get tired of hearing me
and go, give him his damn money,
and let him fix this thing,
so he'd go away.
That's fine.
At least I know
y'all will be fine.
When the CME comes rolling
in from mother nature,
or an EMP comes in from
an attacking country,
I know you guys are going
to weather this thing OK.
>> How would you protect the
vehicles and the airplanes?
>> Faraday cages.
It's not like I'm
guessing at this.
I just know.
It's so simple.
Boy, I don't want you people
to have to face that burning
inferno they're talking about.
And it's coming.
There's been books
written about this.
One famous book-- boy,
that's a sobering account.
And he's got all, in the back
of the book, all the people that
verified all this.
It's not just one group saying
this is going to happen.
It's bipartisan.
You know, both parties
know about this.
But they're just
sitting on their butts.
I don't know what
it is with y'all.
But you know, the American
people deserve better.
God almighty, y'all have paid
so much money for so much stuff,
and have gotten crap.
You know, give you something
that you can protect yourselves
with.
And I go over to
the Middle East--
if I can get America
hardened, I'm not
stopping here at America, man.
I'm stomping across the planet.
Because I can't have
any continent on fire.
Because it's going throw up so
much smoke, we lose the Sun.
All plant life dies.
All animal life dies.
So it's a planet-wide
thing, human race thing.
It's every human being on a
blue-white marble called Earth.
And you're going through space
at 100,000 miles an hour,
and you're all traveling
together on the same thing.
And just to let this stuff go--
you know, it's a sin.
It just makes sense.
Fix the thing and upgrade it.
And it's easy to do.
And we ain't talking 50 years.
Can do it in about
a year and a half.
>> So this is a
win-win for everyone.
>> Everybody.
>> If we just get this done.
Because it eliminates us from
having the grid shut down.
>> Yeah.
Because when that
grid goes down, buddy,
that's when the party starts.
And it's not a party
you want to be in.
Because people without food
and water is horrendous.
If you don't think
that's bad, you
talk to people who
survived in New Orleans
when they had no food and water.
>> That was rough.
>> Talk to the people that
were in the Superdome.
It's not funny.
It's horrible.
Oh, by the way, all
the sanitation stops.
Commodes don't flush anymore.
Backs up.
Runs all over the ground.
So you die from
diseases, exposure.
>> Disease and famine, yeah.
>> And I can just go on and on.
But the point is, you don't
have to go this route.
We have a solution to fix it.
It doesn't cost that much money.
It won't take that much time.
And you can implement it
and stop worrying about it.
>> David, you're
blowing us away.
This is fantastic information.
It looks like you definitely
have the solution for this.
And you have the biggest
heart that I've ever
seen on this planet.
And we thank you for that.
And thanks for
being on the show.
>> Glad to be here.
I just hope you guys listen.
Man, I want to help y'all.
>> I'm Emery Smith.
And until next time, be safe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]